CSS Outline
An outline is a line drawn outside the element's border.
CSS Outline
An outline is a line that is drawn around elements, OUTSIDE the borders, to make the element "stand out".
CSS has the following outline properties:

outline-style
outline-color
outline-width
outline-offset
outline


CSS Outline Style
The outline-style property specifies the style of the outline, and can have one of the following values:

dotted - Defines a dotted outline
dashed - Defines a dashed outline
solid - Defines a solid outline
double - Defines a double outline
groove - Defines a 3D grooved outline
ridge - Defines a 3D ridged outline
inset - Defines a 3D inset outline
outset - Defines a 3D outset outline
none - Defines no outline
hidden - Defines a hidden outline



CSS Outline Width

CSS Outline Width
The outline-width property specifies the width of the outline, and can have one of the following values:

thin (typically 1px)
medium (typically 3px)
thick (typically 5px)
A specific size (in px, pt, cm, em, etc)



CSS Outline Color
The outline-color property is used to set the color of the outline.

CSS Outline Shorthand
outline:5px solid yellow

CSS Outline Offset
The outline-offset property adds space between an outline and the edge/border of an element. The space between an element and its outline is transparent.

The following example specifies an outline 15px outside the border edge:


All CSS Outline Properties
Property	Description
outline	A shorthand property for setting outline-width, outline-style, and outline-color in one declaration
outline-color	Sets the color of an outline
outline-offset	Specifies the space between an outline and the edge or border of an element
outline-style	Sets the style of an outline
outline-width	Sets the width of an outline


CSS Text
Text Color
The color property is used to set the color of the text

CSS Text Alignment


Text Alignment and Text Direction
In this chapter you will learn about the following properties:

text-align
text-align-last
direction
unicode-bidi
vertical-align

Text Alignment
The text-align property is used to set the horizontal alignment of a text.
A text can be left or right aligned, centered, or justified.
When the text-align property is set to "justify", each line is stretched so that every line has equal width, and the left and right margins are straight (like in magazines and newspapers):
CSS Syntax
text-align: left|right|center|justify|initial|inherit;


Text Align Last
The text-align-last property specifies how to align the last line of a text.
text-align-last: left|right|center

Text Direction
The direction and unicode-bidi properties can be used to change the text direction of an element:

p {
  direction: rtl;
  unicode-bidi: bidi-override;
}


Vertical Alignment
The vertical-align property sets the vertical alignment of an element.


CSS Text Decoration
Text Decoration
In this chapter you will learn about the following properties:

text-decoration-line
text-decoration-color
text-decoration-style
text-decoration-thickness
text-decoration

CSS Syntax
text-decoration-line:overline|line-through|underline|underline overline
text-decoration: text-decoration-line text-decoration-color text-decoration-style text-decoration-thickness|initial|inherit;

Specify a Color for the Decoration Line
The text-decoration-color property is used to set the color of the decoration line.

Specify a Style for the Decoration Line
The text-decoration-style property is used to set the style of the decoration line.
CSS Syntax
text-decoration-style:solid|dotted

Specify the Thickness for the Decoration Line
The text-decoration-thickness property is used to set the thickness of the decoration line

A Small Tip
All links in HTML are underlined by default. Sometimes you see that links are styled with no underline. 
The text-decoration: none; is used to remove the underline from links, like this:

Example
a {
  text-decoration: none;
}


CSS Text Transformation
Text Transformation
The text-transform property is used to specify uppercase and lowercase letters in a text.

It can be used to turn everything into uppercase or lowercase letters, or capitalize the first letter of each word:

CSS Syntax
text-transform: none|capitalize|uppercase|lowercase|initial|inherit;


CSS Text Spacing

Text Spacing
In this chapter you will learn about the following properties:

text-indent
letter-spacing
line-height
word-spacing
white-space

Text Indentation
The text-indent property is used to specify the indentation of the first line of a text:

Letter Spacing
The letter-spacing property is used to specify the space between the characters in a text.

Line Height
The line-height property is used to specify the space between lines:

Word Spacing
The word-spacing property is used to specify the space between the words in a text.

White Space
The white-space property specifies how white-space inside an element is handled.


CSS Text Shadow
Text Shadow
The text-shadow property adds shadow to text.
In its simplest use, you only specify the horizontal shadow (2px) and the vertical shadow (2px):blur effect (5px) to the shadow:color (red) to the shadow:

h1 {
  text-shadow: 2px 2px 5px red;
}


