CSS Layout - width and max-width
Using width, max-width and margin: auto;
As mentioned in the previous chapter; a block-level element always takes up the full width available (stretches out to the left and right as far as it can).

Setting the width of a block-level element will prevent it from stretching out to the edges of its container. 
Then, you can set the margins to auto, to horizontally center the element within its container. 
The element will take up the specified width, and the remaining space will be split equally between the two margins:


Note: The problem with the <div> above occurs when the browser window is smaller than the width of the element. The browser then adds a horizontal scrollbar to the page.

Using max-width instead, in this situation, will improve the browser's handling of small windows. This is important when making a site usable on small devices:
Tip: Resize the browser window to less than 500px wide, to see the difference between the two divs!

CSS Layout - The position Property

The position property specifies the type of positioning method used for an element (static, relative, fixed, absolute or sticky).

The position Property
The position property specifies the type of positioning method used for an element.

There are five different position values:

static
relative
fixed
absolute
sticky
Elements are then positioned using the top, bottom, left, and right properties. 
However, these properties will not work unless the position property is set first.
 They also work differently depending on the position value.

position: static;
HTML elements are positioned static by default.

Static positioned elements are not affected by the top, bottom, left, and right properties.

An element with position: static; is not positioned in any special way; it is always positioned according to the normal flow of the page:


position: relative;
An element with position: relative; is positioned relative to its normal position.

Setting the top, right, bottom, and left properties of a relatively-positioned element will cause it to be adjusted away from its normal position.
 Other content will not be adjusted to fit into any gap left by the element.

position: absolute;
An element with position: absolute; is positioned relative to the nearest positioned ancestor (instead of positioned relative to the viewport, like fixed).

However; if an absolute positioned element has no positioned ancestors, it uses the document body, and moves along with page scrolling.


position: fixed;
An element with position: fixed; is positioned relative to the viewport, which means it always stays in the same place even if the page is scrolled. The top, right, bottom, and left properties are used to position the element.

A fixed element does not leave a gap in the page where it would normally have been located.

Notice the fixed element in the lower-right corner of the page. Here is the CSS that is used:

Note:- 🚨
To summarize:

The element with position: sticky will stick within its parent container until it reaches its scroll threshold, and then it will scroll normally.
Other elements without position: sticky will scroll with the rest of the content, whether it's within the parent container or the body of the page.


position: sticky;
An element with position: sticky; is positioned based on the user's scroll position.

A sticky element toggles between relative and fixed, depending on the scroll position.
 It is positioned relative until a given offset position is met in the viewport - then it "sticks" in place (like position:fixed).


CSS Layout - The z-index Property
Note:- 🚨
The z-index property specifies the stack order of an element.
The z-index Property
When elements are positioned, they can overlap other elements.

The z-index property specifies the stack order of an element (which element should be placed in front of, or behind, the others).
An element can have a positive or negative stack order:

Note: z-index only works on positioned elements (position: absolute, position: relative, position: fixed, or position: sticky) and flex items (elements that are direct children of display: flex elements).

CSS Layout - Overflow
The CSS overflow property controls what happens to content that is too big to fit into an area

CSS Overflow
The overflow property specifies whether to clip the content or to add scrollbars when the content of an element is too big to fit in the specified area.

The overflow property has the following values:

visible - Default. The overflow is not clipped. The content renders outside the element's box
hidden - The overflow is clipped, and the rest of the content will be invisible
scroll - The overflow is clipped, and a scrollbar is added to see the rest of the content
auto - Similar to scroll, but it adds scrollbars only when necessary
Note:- 🚨
Note: The overflow property only works for block elements with a specified height.

overflow: visible
By default, the overflow is visible, meaning that it is not clipped and it renders outside the element's box:

overflow: hidden
With the hidden value, the overflow is clipped, and the rest of the content is hidden:

overflow: scroll
Setting the value to scroll, the overflow is clipped and a scrollbar is added to scroll inside the box. 
Note that this will add a scrollbar both horizontally and vertically (even if you do not need it):

overflow: auto
The auto value is similar to scroll, but it adds scrollbars only when necessary:

overflow-x and overflow-y
The overflow-x and overflow-y properties specifies whether to change the overflow of content just horizontally or vertically (or both):

overflow-x specifies what to do with the left/right edges of the content.
overflow-y specifies what to do with the top/bottom edges of the content.


CSS Layout - display: inline-block

The display: inline-block Value
Compared to display: inline, the major difference is that display: inline-block allows to set a width and height on the element.

Also, with display: inline-block, the top and bottom margins/paddings are respected, but with display: inline they are not.

Compared to display: block, the major difference is that display: inline-block does not add a line-break after the element, so the element can sit next to other elements.

The following example shows the different behavior of display: inline, display: inline-block and display: block:


CSS Layout - Horizontal & Vertical Align


Center Align Elements
To horizontally center a block element (like <div>), use margin: auto;

Setting the width of the element will prevent it from stretching out to the edges of its container.
Note: Center aligning has no effect if the width property is not set (or set to 100%).

Center Align Text
To just center the text inside an element, use text-align: center;

Center an Image
To center an image, set left and right margin to auto and make it into a block element:

img {
  display: block;
  margin-left: auto;
  margin-right: auto;
  width: 40%;
}

