Note:- 🚨  📝
CSS Flexbox 🚨  📝
CSS Flexbox Layout Module
Before the Flexbox Layout module, there were four layout modes:

Block, for sections in a webpage
Inline, for text
Table, for two-dimensional table data
Positioned, for explicit position of an element

CSS Flex Container 🚨  📝
The flex container becomes flexible by setting the display property to flex

.flex-container {
  display: flex;
}

The flex container properties are:

flex-direction
flex-wrap
flex-flow
justify-content
align-items
align-content

The flex-direction Property
The flex-direction property defines in which direction the container wants to stack the flex items.
The column value stacks the flex items vertically (from top to bottom):
The row value stacks the flex items horizontally (from left to right):
.flex-container {
  display: flex;
  flex-direction: column;
 flex-direction: column-reverse;
flex-direction: row;
flex-direction: row-reverse;
}

The flex-wrap Property
The flex-wrap property specifies whether the flex items should wrap or not.
flex-wrap: wrap;
flex-wrap: nowrap;
flex-wrap: wrap-reverse;
The wrap-reverse value specifies that the flexible items will wrap if necessary, in reverse order:

The flex-flow Property
The flex-flow property is a shorthand property for setting both the flex-direction and flex-wrap properties.

.flex-container {
  display: flex;justify-contentjustify-content
  flex-flow: row wrap;
}

The justify-content Property
The justify-content property is used to align the flex items inside the container

synatx: this is used for horizontal align
justify-content:flex-start|flex-end|center|space-between|space-evenly|space-around

The align-items Property
The align-items property is used to align the flex items inside the container.

syntax:this is used for vertical align
align-items:flex-start|center|flex-end|baseline

The align-content Property
The align-content property is used to align the flex lines.

Note:- 🚨
align-conetnt property only used for only for flex lines but use case when multiple flex row is there
it works for verticall way

syntax:
align-content:flex-start|flex-end|center|space-between|space-evenly|space-around

Perfect Centering
In the following example we will solve a very common style problem: perfect centering.

.flex-container {
  display: flex;
  height: 300px;
  justify-content: center;
  align-items: center;
}


The CSS Flexbox Container Properties
The following table lists all the CSS Flexbox Container properties:

Property	Description
align-content	Modifies the behavior of the flex-wrap property. It is similar to align-items, but instead of aligning flex items, it aligns flex lines
align-items	Vertically aligns the flex items when the items do not use all available space on the cross-axis
display	Specifies the type of box used for an HTML element
flex-direction	Specifies the direction of the flexible items inside a flex container
flex-flow	A shorthand property for flex-direction and flex-wrap
flex-wrap	Specifies whether the flex items should wrap or not, if there is not enough room for them on one flex line
justify-content	Horizontally aligns the flex items when the items do not use all available space on the main-axis


CSS Flex Items 🚨  📝

Child Elements (Items)
The direct child elements of a flex container automatically becomes flexible (flex) items.

The flex item properties are:

order
flex-grow
flex-shrink
flex-basis
flex
align-self

The order Property
The order property specifies the order of the flex items.

The flex-grow Property
The flex-grow property specifies how much a flex item will grow relative to the rest of the flex items.

The flex-shrink Property
The flex-shrink property specifies how much a flex item will shrink relative to the rest of the flex items.

The flex-basis Property
The flex-basis property specifies the initial length of a flex item.

The flex Property
The flex property is a shorthand property for the flex-grow, flex-shrink, and flex-basis properties.

The align-self Property
The align-self property specifies the alignment for the selected item inside the flexible container.

The align-self property overrides the default alignment set by the container's align-items property
Note :- 🚨
align-self work for the veticall flow for indidual element
