Note:- 🚨  📝
Grid Layout
The CSS Grid Layout Module offers a grid-based layout system, with rows and columns,
making it easier to design web pages without having to use floats and positioning.

Grid Elements
A grid layout consists of a parent element, with one or more child elements.

Grid Columns
The vertical lines of grid items are called columns.

Grid Rows
The horizontal lines of grid items are called rows.

Grid Gaps
The spaces between each column/row are called gaps.

You can adjust the gap size by using one of the following properties:

column-gap
row-gap
gap

The column-gap property sets the gap between the columns:

The row-gap property sets the gap between the rows:

The gap property is a shorthand property for the row-gap and the column-gap properties:

Grid Lines
The lines between columns are called column lines.

The lines between rows are called row lines.

Example
Place a grid item at column line 1, and let it end on column line 3:

.item1 {
  grid-column-start: 1;
  grid-column-end: 3;
}

Place a grid item at row line 1, and let it end on row line 3:

.item1 {
  grid-row-start: 1;
  grid-row-end: 3;
}


All CSS Grid Properties
Property	Description
column-gap	Specifies the gap between the columns
gap	A shorthand property for the row-gap and the column-gap properties
grid	A shorthand property for the grid-template-rows, grid-template-columns, grid-template-areas, grid-auto-rows, grid-auto-columns, and the grid-auto-flow properties
grid-area	Either specifies a name for the grid item, or this property is a shorthand property for the grid-row-start, grid-column-start, grid-row-end, and grid-column-end properties
grid-auto-columns	Specifies a default column size
grid-auto-flow	Specifies how auto-placed items are inserted in the grid
grid-auto-rows	Specifies a default row size
grid-column	A shorthand property for the grid-column-start and the grid-column-end properties
grid-column-end	Specifies where to end the grid item
grid-column-gap	Specifies the size of the gap between columns
grid-column-start	Specifies where to start the grid item
grid-gap	A shorthand property for the grid-row-gap and grid-column-gap properties
grid-row	A shorthand property for the grid-row-start and the grid-row-end properties
grid-row-end	Specifies where to end the grid item
grid-row-gap	Specifies the size of the gap between rows
grid-row-start	Specifies where to start the grid item
grid-template	A shorthand property for the grid-template-rows, grid-template-columns and grid-areas properties
grid-template-areas	Specifies how to display columns and rows, using named grid items
grid-template-columns	Specifies the size of the columns, and how many columns in a grid layout
grid-template-rows	Specifies the size of the rows in a grid layout
row-gap	Specifies the gap between the grid rows


CSS Grid Container

Grid Container
To make an HTML element behave as a grid container, you have to set the display property to grid or inline-grid.

Grid containers consist of grid items, placed inside columns and rows.

The grid-template-columns Property
The grid-template-columns property defines the number of columns in your grid layout, and it can define the width of each column.

The value is a space-separated-list, where each value defines the width of the respective column.

If you want your grid layout to contain 4 columns, specify the width of the 4 columns, or "auto" if all columns should have the same width.

Example
Make a grid with 4 columns:
Note:- 🚨
grid-template-columns defined the width of the column item

.grid-container {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: auto auto auto auto;
}

Note: If you have more than 4 items in a 4 columns grid, the grid will automatically add a new row to put the items in.

The grid-template-columns property can also be used to specify the size (width) of the columns.

Example
Set a size for the 4 columns:

.grid-container {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: 80px 200px auto 40px;
}

The grid-template-rows Property
The grid-template-rows property defines the height of each row.
Note:- 🚨
grid-template-rows defined the width of the entire row item height

.grid-container {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-rows: 80px 200px;
}

The justify-content Property
The justify-content property is used to vertically align the whole grid inside the container.

Note 🚨: The grid's total width has to be less than the container's width for the justify-content property to have any effect.

Syntax:
justify-content:start|end|center|space-between|space-evenly|space-around

The align-content Property
The align-content property is used to vertically align the whole grid inside the container.

Syntax:
align-content:start|end|center|space-between|space-evenly|space-around

Note 🚨: The grid's total height has to be less than the container's height for the align-content property to have any effect.

CSS Grid Item
Child Elements (Items)
A grid container contains grid items.

By default, a container has one grid item for each column, in each row, but you can style the grid items so that they will span multiple columns and/or rows.

Note 🚨: The grid-column property is a shorthand property for the grid-column-start and the grid-column-end properties.

The grid-column Property:
The grid-column property defines on which column(s) to place an item.

You define where the item will start, and where the item will end.

Note 🚨: The grid-column property is a shorthand property for the grid-column-start and the grid-column-end properties.

The grid-row Property:
The grid-row property defines on which row to place an item.

You define where the item will start, and where the item will end

Note 🚨: The grid-row property is a shorthand property for the grid-row-start and the grid-row-end properties

The grid-area Property
The grid-area property can be used as a shorthand property for the grid-row-start, grid-column-start, grid-row-end and the grid-column-end properties.

.item5 {

    grid-area: 1 / 2 / 3 / 4
}

Naming Grid Items
The grid-area property can also be used to assign names to grid items.

Named grid items can be referred to by the grid-template-areas property of the grid container.