Note:- 🚨
CSS Rounded Corners 📝

CSS Rounded Corners
With the CSS border-radius property, you can give any element "rounded corners".

CSS border-radius - Specify Each Corner
The border-radius property can have from one to four values. Here are the rules:

Four values - border-radius: 15px 50px 30px 5px; (first value applies to top-left corner, second value applies to top-right corner, 
third value applies to bottom-right corner, and fourth value applies to bottom-left corner): 

Three values - border-radius: 15px 50px 30px; (first value applies to top-left corner, second value applies to top-right and bottom-left corners, 
and third value applies to bottom-right corner):

Two values - border-radius: 15px 50px; (first value applies to top-left and bottom-right corners, and the second value applies to top-right and bottom-left corners):

One value - border-radius: 15px; (the value applies to all four corners, which are rounded equally:

CSS Border Images 📝

CSS Border Images
With the CSS border-image property, you can set an image to be used as the border around an element.
CSS border-image Property
The CSS border-image property allows you to specify an image to be used instead of the normal border around an element.

The property has three parts:

The image to use as the border
Where to slice the image
Define whether the middle sections should be repeated or stretched


CSS Border Image Properties
Property	Description
border-image	A shorthand property for setting all the border-image-* properties
border-image-source	Specifies the path to the image to be used as a border
border-image-slice	Specifies how to slice the border image
border-image-width	Specifies the widths of the border image
border-image-outset	Specifies the amount by which the border image area extends beyond the border box
border-image-repeat	Specifies whether the border image should be repeated, rounded or stretched


CSS Multiple Backgrounds

In this chapter you will learn how to add multiple background images to one element.

You will also learn about the following properties:

background-size
background-origin
background-clip


CSS Multiple Backgrounds
CSS allows you to add multiple background images for an element, through the background-image property.

The different background images are separated by commas, and the images are stacked on top of each other, where the first image is closest to the viewer.

The following example has two background images, the first image is a flower (aligned to the bottom and right) and the second image is a paper background (aligned to the top-left corner):


CSS Background Size
The CSS background-size property allows you to specify the size of background images.

The size can be specified in lengths, percentages, or by using one of the two keywords: contain or cover.

The two other possible values for background-size are contain and cover.

The contain keyword scales the background image to be as large as possible (but both its width and its height must fit inside the content area).
 As such, depending on the proportions of the background image and the background positioning area, 
there may be some areas of the background which are not covered by the background image.

The cover keyword scales the background image so that the content area is completely covered by the
 background image (both its width and height are equal to or exceed the content area). 
As such, some parts of the background image may not be visible in the background positioning area.

Define Sizes of Multiple Background Images
The background-size property also accepts multiple values for background size (using a comma-separated list), when working with multiple backgrounds.

Full Size Background Image
Now we want to have a background image on a website that covers the entire browser window at all times.

The requirements are as follows:

Fill the entire page with the image (no white space)
Scale image as needed
Center image on page
Do not cause scrollbars

html {
  background: url(img_man.jpg) no-repeat center fixed;
  background-size: cover;
}

CSS background-origin Property

The CSS background-origin property specifies where the background image is positioned.

The property takes three different values:

border-box - the background image starts from the upper left corner of the border
padding-box - (default) the background image starts from the upper left corner of the padding edge
content-box - the background image starts from the upper left corner of the content

CSS background-clip Property
The CSS background-clip property specifies the painting area of the background.

The property takes three different values:

border-box - (default) the background is painted to the outside edge of the border
padding-box - the background is painted to the outside edge of the padding
content-box - the background is painted within the content box
The following example illustrates the background-clip property:

CSS Advanced Background Properties
Property	Description
background	A shorthand property for setting all the background properties in one declaration
background-clip	Specifies the painting area of the background
background-image	Specifies one or more background images for an element
background-origin	Specifies where the background image(s) is/are positioned
background-size	Specifies the size of the background image(s)



CSS Colors📝

RGBA Colors
RGBA color values are an extension of RGB color values with an alpha channel - which specifies the opacity for a color.

HSL Colors
HSL stands for Hue, Saturation and Lightness.

Opacity
The CSS opacity property sets the opacity for the whole element (both background color and text will be opaque/transparent).

CSS Color Keywords

This page will explain the transparent, currentcolor, and inherit keywords.
The transparent Keyword
The transparent keyword is used to make a color transparent. This is often used to make a transparent background color for an element.

Note:- 🚨
Note: The transparent keyword is equivalent to rgba(0,0,0,0). 

The currentcolor Keyword
The currentcolor keyword is like a variable that holds the current value of the color property of an element.
Note:- 🚨 border automatically takes the blue color
div {
  color: blue;
  border: 10px solid currentcolor;
}

The inherit Keyword
The inherit keyword specifies that a property should inherit its value from its parent element.
